# python.library.pickle#pickle.Unpickler

class pickle.Unpickler(file, *, fix_imports=True, encoding="ASCII", errors="strict", buffers=None)  
This takes a binary file for reading a pickle data stream. The protocol version of the pickle is detected automatically, so no protocol argument is needed. The argument file must have three methods, a read() method that takes an integer argument, a readinto() method that takes a buffer argument and a readline() method that requires no arguments, as in the io.BufferedIOBase interface. Thus file can be an on-disk file opened for binary reading, an io.BytesIO object, or any other custom object that meets this interface. The optional arguments fix_imports, encoding and errors are used to control compatibility support for pickle stream generated by Python 2. If fix_imports is true, pickle will try to map the old Python 2 names to the new names used in Python 3. The encoding and errors tell pickle how to decode 8-bit string instances pickled by Python 2; these default to ‘ASCII’ and ‘strict’, respectively. The encoding can be ‘bytes’ to read these 8-bit string instances as bytes objects. Using encoding='latin1' is required for unpickling NumPy arrays and instances of datetime, date and time pickled by Python 2. If buffers is None (the default), then all data necessary for deserialization must be contained in the pickle stream. This means that the buffer_callback argument was None when a Pickler was instantiated (or when dump() or dumps() was called). If buffers is not None, it should be an iterable of buffer-enabled objects that is consumed each time the pickle stream references an out-of-band buffer view. Such buffers have been given in order to the buffer_callback of a Pickler object.  Changed in version 3.8: The buffers argument was added.   
load()  
Read the pickled representation of an object from the open file object given in the constructor, and return the reconstituted object hierarchy specified therein. Bytes past the pickled representation of the object are ignored. 
  
persistent_load(pid)  
Raise an UnpicklingError by default. If defined, persistent_load() should return the object specified by the persistent ID pid. If an invalid persistent ID is encountered, an UnpicklingError should be raised. See Persistence of External Objects for details and examples of uses. 
  
find_class(module, name)  
Import module if necessary and return the object called name from it, where the module and name arguments are str objects. Note, unlike its name suggests, find_class() is also used for finding functions. Subclasses may override this to gain control over what type of objects and how they can be loaded, potentially reducing security risks. Refer to Restricting Globals for details. Raises an auditing event pickle.find_class with arguments module, name.
