# python.library.tarfile#tarfile.TarFile

class tarfile.TarFile(name=None, mode='r', fileobj=None, format=DEFAULT_FORMAT, tarinfo=TarInfo, dereference=False, ignore_zeros=False, encoding=ENCODING, errors='surrogateescape', pax_headers=None, debug=0, errorlevel=0)  
All following arguments are optional and can be accessed as instance attributes as well. name is the pathname of the archive. name may be a path-like object. It can be omitted if fileobj is given. In this case, the file object’s name attribute is used if it exists. mode is either 'r' to read from an existing archive, 'a' to append data to an existing file, 'w' to create a new file overwriting an existing one, or 'x' to create a new file only if it does not already exist. If fileobj is given, it is used for reading or writing data. If it can be determined, mode is overridden by fileobj’s mode. fileobj will be used from position 0.  Note fileobj is not closed, when TarFile is closed.  format controls the archive format for writing. It must be one of the constants USTAR_FORMAT, GNU_FORMAT or PAX_FORMAT that are defined at module level. When reading, format will be automatically detected, even if different formats are present in a single archive. The tarinfo argument can be used to replace the default TarInfo class with a different one. If dereference is False, add symbolic and hard links to the archive. If it is True, add the content of the target files to the archive. This has no effect on systems that do not support symbolic links. If ignore_zeros is False, treat an empty block as the end of the archive. If it is True, skip empty (and invalid) blocks and try to get as many members as possible. This is only useful for reading concatenated or damaged archives. debug can be set from 0 (no debug messages) up to 3 (all debug messages). The messages are written to sys.stderr. If errorlevel is 0, all errors are ignored when using TarFile.extract(). Nevertheless, they appear as error messages in the debug output, when debugging is enabled. If 1, all fatal errors are raised as OSError exceptions. If 2, all non-fatal errors are raised as TarError exceptions as well. The encoding and errors arguments define the character encoding to be used for reading or writing the archive and how conversion errors are going to be handled. The default settings will work for most users. See section Unicode issues for in-depth information. The pax_headers argument is an optional dictionary of strings which will be added as a pax global header if format is PAX_FORMAT.  Changed in version 3.2: Use 'surrogateescape' as the default for the errors argument.   Changed in version 3.5: The 'x' (exclusive creation) mode was added.   Changed in version 3.6: The name parameter accepts a path-like object.
