# python.library.bz2#bz2.BZ2File

class bz2.BZ2File(filename, mode='r', *, compresslevel=9)  
Open a bzip2-compressed file in binary mode. If filename is a str or bytes object, open the named file directly. Otherwise, filename should be a file object, which will be used to read or write the compressed data. The mode argument can be either 'r' for reading (default), 'w' for overwriting, 'x' for exclusive creation, or 'a' for appending. These can equivalently be given as 'rb', 'wb', 'xb' and 'ab' respectively. If filename is a file object (rather than an actual file name), a mode of 'w' does not truncate the file, and is instead equivalent to 'a'. If mode is 'w' or 'a', compresslevel can be an integer between 1 and 9 specifying the level of compression: 1 produces the least compression, and 9 (default) produces the most compression. If mode is 'r', the input file may be the concatenation of multiple compressed streams. BZ2File provides all of the members specified by the io.BufferedIOBase, except for detach() and truncate(). Iteration and the with statement are supported. BZ2File also provides the following method:  
peek([n])  
Return buffered data without advancing the file position. At least one byte of data will be returned (unless at EOF). The exact number of bytes returned is unspecified.  Note While calling peek() does not change the file position of the BZ2File, it may change the position of the underlying file object (e.g. if the BZ2File was constructed by passing a file object for filename).   New in version 3.3.  
  Changed in version 3.1: Support for the with statement was added.   Changed in version 3.3: The fileno(), readable(), seekable(), writable(), read1() and readinto() methods were added.   Changed in version 3.3: Support was added for filename being a file object instead of an actual filename.   Changed in version 3.3: The 'a' (append) mode was added, along with support for reading multi-stream files.   Changed in version 3.4: The 'x' (exclusive creation) mode was added.   Changed in version 3.5: The read() method now accepts an argument of None.   Changed in version 3.6: Accepts a path-like object.   Changed in version 3.9: The buffering parameter has been removed. It was ignored and deprecated since Python 3.0. Pass an open file object to control how the file is opened. The compresslevel parameter became keyword-only.
