# python.library.logging#logging.basicConfig

logging.basicConfig(**kwargs)  
Does basic configuration for the logging system by creating a StreamHandler with a default Formatter and adding it to the root logger. The functions debug(), info(), warning(), error() and critical() will call basicConfig() automatically if no handlers are defined for the root logger. This function does nothing if the root logger already has handlers configured, unless the keyword argument force is set to True.  Note This function should be called from the main thread before other threads are started. In versions of Python prior to 2.7.1 and 3.2, if this function is called from multiple threads, it is possible (in rare circumstances) that a handler will be added to the root logger more than once, leading to unexpected results such as messages being duplicated in the log.  The following keyword arguments are supported.   
Format Description   
filename Specifies that a FileHandler be created, using the specified filename, rather than a StreamHandler.  
filemode If filename is specified, open the file in this mode. Defaults to 'a'.  
format Use the specified format string for the handler. Defaults to attributes levelname, name and message separated by colons.  
datefmt Use the specified date/time format, as accepted by time.strftime().  
style If format is specified, use this style for the format string. One of '%', '{' or '$' for printf-style, str.format() or string.Template respectively. Defaults to '%'.  
level Set the root logger level to the specified level.  
stream Use the specified stream to initialize the StreamHandler. Note that this argument is incompatible with filename - if both are present, a ValueError is raised.  
handlers If specified, this should be an iterable of already created handlers to add to the root logger. Any handlers which don’t already have a formatter set will be assigned the default formatter created in this function. Note that this argument is incompatible with filename or stream - if both are present, a ValueError is raised.  
force If this keyword argument is specified as true, any existing handlers attached to the root logger are removed and closed, before carrying out the configuration as specified by the other arguments.  
encoding If this keyword argument is specified along with filename, its value is used when the FileHandler is created, and thus used when opening the output file.  
errors If this keyword argument is specified along with filename, its value is used when the FileHandler is created, and thus used when opening the output file. If not specified, the value ‘backslashreplace’ is used. Note that if None is specified, it will be passed as such to func:open, which means that it will be treated the same as passing ‘errors’.    Changed in version 3.2: The style argument was added.   Changed in version 3.3: The handlers argument was added. Additional checks were added to catch situations where incompatible arguments are specified (e.g. handlers together with stream or filename, or stream together with filename).   Changed in version 3.8: The force argument was added.   Changed in version 3.9: The encoding and errors arguments were added.
