# python.library.asyncio-eventloop#asyncio.loop.subprocess_exec

coroutine loop.subprocess_exec(protocol_factory, *args, stdin=subprocess.PIPE, stdout=subprocess.PIPE, stderr=subprocess.PIPE, **kwargs)  
Create a subprocess from one or more string arguments specified by args. args must be a list of strings represented by:  
str; or bytes, encoded to the filesystem encoding.  The first string specifies the program executable, and the remaining strings specify the arguments. Together, string arguments form the argv of the program. This is similar to the standard library subprocess.Popen class called with shell=False and the list of strings passed as the first argument; however, where Popen takes a single argument which is list of strings, subprocess_exec takes multiple string arguments. The protocol_factory must be a callable returning a subclass of the asyncio.SubprocessProtocol class. Other parameters:  
stdin can be any of these:  a file-like object representing a pipe to be connected to the subprocess’s standard input stream using connect_write_pipe()
 the subprocess.PIPE constant (default) which will create a new pipe and connect it, the value None which will make the subprocess inherit the file descriptor from this process the subprocess.DEVNULL constant which indicates that the special os.devnull file will be used   
stdout can be any of these:  a file-like object representing a pipe to be connected to the subprocess’s standard output stream using connect_write_pipe()
 the subprocess.PIPE constant (default) which will create a new pipe and connect it, the value None which will make the subprocess inherit the file descriptor from this process the subprocess.DEVNULL constant which indicates that the special os.devnull file will be used   
stderr can be any of these:  a file-like object representing a pipe to be connected to the subprocess’s standard error stream using connect_write_pipe()
 the subprocess.PIPE constant (default) which will create a new pipe and connect it, the value None which will make the subprocess inherit the file descriptor from this process the subprocess.DEVNULL constant which indicates that the special os.devnull file will be used the subprocess.STDOUT constant which will connect the standard error stream to the process’ standard output stream   
All other keyword arguments are passed to subprocess.Popen without interpretation, except for bufsize, universal_newlines, shell, text, encoding and errors, which should not be specified at all. The asyncio subprocess API does not support decoding the streams as text. bytes.decode() can be used to convert the bytes returned from the stream to text.   See the constructor of the subprocess.Popen class for documentation on other arguments. Returns a pair of (transport, protocol), where transport conforms to the asyncio.SubprocessTransport base class and protocol is an object instantiated by the protocol_factory.
