# werkzeug.datastructures.index#werkzeug.datastructures.WWWAuthenticate

class werkzeug.datastructures.WWWAuthenticate(auth_type=None, values=None, on_update=None)  
Provides simple access to WWW-Authenticate headers.  
property algorithm  
A string indicating a pair of algorithms used to produce the digest and a checksum. If this is not present it is assumed to be “MD5”. If the algorithm is not understood, the challenge should be ignored (and a different one used, if there is more than one). 
  
static auth_property(name, doc=None)  
A static helper function for Authentication subclasses to add extra authentication system properties onto a class: class FooAuthenticate(WWWAuthenticate):
    special_realm = auth_property('special_realm')
 For more information have a look at the sourcecode to see how the regular properties (realm etc.) are implemented. 
  
property domain  
A list of URIs that define the protection space. If a URI is an absolute path, it is relative to the canonical root URL of the server being accessed. 
  
property nonce  
A server-specified data string which should be uniquely generated each time a 401 response is made. It is recommended that this string be base64 or hexadecimal data. 
  
property opaque  
A string of data, specified by the server, which should be returned by the client unchanged in the Authorization header of subsequent requests with URIs in the same protection space. It is recommended that this string be base64 or hexadecimal data. 
  
property qop  
A set of quality-of-privacy directives such as auth and auth-int. 
  
property realm  
A string to be displayed to users so they know which username and password to use. This string should contain at least the name of the host performing the authentication and might additionally indicate the collection of users who might have access. 
  
set_basic(realm='authentication required')  
Clear the auth info and enable basic auth. 
  
set_digest(realm, nonce, qop=('auth'), opaque=None, algorithm=None, stale=False)  
Clear the auth info and enable digest auth. 
  
property stale  
A flag, indicating that the previous request from the client was rejected because the nonce value was stale. 
  
to_header()  
Convert the stored values into a WWW-Authenticate header. 
  
property type  
The type of the auth mechanism. HTTP currently specifies Basic and Digest.
