# skimage.api.skimage.util#skimage.util.apply_parallel

skimage.util.apply_parallel(function, array, chunks=None, depth=0, mode=None, extra_arguments=(), extra_keywords={}, *, dtype=None, multichannel=False, compute=None) [source]
 
Map a function in parallel across an array. Split an array into possibly overlapping chunks of a given depth and boundary type, call the given function in parallel on the chunks, combine the chunks and return the resulting array.  Parameters 
 
functionfunction 

Function to be mapped which takes an array as an argument.  
arraynumpy array or dask array 

Array which the function will be applied to.  
chunksint, tuple, or tuple of tuples, optional 

A single integer is interpreted as the length of one side of a square chunk that should be tiled across the array. One tuple of length array.ndim represents the shape of a chunk, and it is tiled across the array. A list of tuples of length ndim, where each sub-tuple is a sequence of chunk sizes along the corresponding dimension. If None, the array is broken up into chunks based on the number of available cpus. More information about chunks is in the documentation here.  
depthint, optional 

Integer equal to the depth of the added boundary cells. Defaults to zero.  
mode{‘reflect’, ‘symmetric’, ‘periodic’, ‘wrap’, ‘nearest’, ‘edge’}, optional 

type of external boundary padding.  
extra_argumentstuple, optional 

Tuple of arguments to be passed to the function.  
extra_keywordsdictionary, optional 

Dictionary of keyword arguments to be passed to the function.  
dtypedata-type or None, optional 

The data-type of the function output. If None, Dask will attempt to infer this by calling the function on data of shape (1,) * ndim. For functions expecting RGB or multichannel data this may be problematic. In such cases, the user should manually specify this dtype argument instead.  New in version 0.18: dtype was added in 0.18.   
multichannelbool, optional 

If chunks is None and multichannel is True, this function will keep only a single chunk along the channels axis. When depth is specified as a scalar value, that depth will be applied only to the non-channels axes (a depth of 0 will be used along the channels axis). If the user manually specified both chunks and a depth tuple, then this argument will have no effect.  New in version 0.18: multichannel was added in 0.18.   
computebool, optional 

If True, compute eagerly returning a NumPy Array. If False, compute lazily returning a Dask Array. If None (default), compute based on array type provided (eagerly for NumPy Arrays and lazily for Dask Arrays).    Returns 
 
outndarray or dask Array 

Returns the result of the applying the operation. Type is dependent on the compute argument.     Notes Numpy edge modes ‘symmetric’, ‘wrap’, and ‘edge’ are converted to the equivalent dask boundary modes ‘reflect’, ‘periodic’ and ‘nearest’, respectively. Setting compute=False can be useful for chaining later operations. For example region selection to preview a result or storing large data to disk instead of loading in memory.
