# flask.api.index#flask.ctx.RequestContext

class flask.ctx.RequestContext(app, environ, request=None, session=None)  
The request context contains all request relevant information. It is created at the beginning of the request and pushed to the _request_ctx_stack and removed at the end of it. It will create the URL adapter and request object for the WSGI environment provided. Do not attempt to use this class directly, instead use test_request_context() and request_context() to create this object. When the request context is popped, it will evaluate all the functions registered on the application for teardown execution (teardown_request()). The request context is automatically popped at the end of the request for you. In debug mode the request context is kept around if exceptions happen so that interactive debuggers have a chance to introspect the data. With 0.4 this can also be forced for requests that did not fail and outside of DEBUG mode. By setting 'flask._preserve_context' to True on the WSGI environment the context will not pop itself at the end of the request. This is used by the test_client() for example to implement the deferred cleanup functionality. You might find this helpful for unittests where you need the information from the context local around for a little longer. Make sure to properly pop() the stack yourself in that situation, otherwise your unittests will leak memory.  Parameters 
 
app (Flask) –  
environ (dict) –  
request (Optional[Request]) –  
session (Optional[SessionMixin]) –    Return type 
None    
copy()  
Creates a copy of this request context with the same request object. This can be used to move a request context to a different greenlet. Because the actual request object is the same this cannot be used to move a request context to a different thread unless access to the request object is locked.  Changelog Changed in version 1.1: The current session object is used instead of reloading the original data. This prevents flask.session pointing to an out-of-date object.   New in version 0.10.   Return type 
flask.ctx.RequestContext   
  
match_request()  
Can be overridden by a subclass to hook into the matching of the request.  Return type 
None   
  
pop(exc=<object object>)  
Pops the request context and unbinds it by doing that. This will also trigger the execution of functions registered by the teardown_request() decorator.  Changelog Changed in version 0.9: Added the exc argument.   Parameters 
exc (Optional[BaseException]) –   Return type 
None   
  
push()  
Binds the request context to the current context.  Return type 
None
