# python.library.gettext#gettext.NullTranslations

class gettext.NullTranslations(fp=None)  
Takes an optional file object fp, which is ignored by the base class. Initializes “protected” instance variables _info and _charset which are set by derived classes, as well as _fallback, which is set through add_fallback(). It then calls self._parse(fp) if fp is not None.  
_parse(fp)  
No-op in the base class, this method takes file object fp, and reads the data from the file, initializing its message catalog. If you have an unsupported message catalog file format, you should override this method to parse your format. 
  
add_fallback(fallback)  
Add fallback as the fallback object for the current translation object. A translation object should consult the fallback if it cannot provide a translation for a given message. 
  
gettext(message)  
If a fallback has been set, forward gettext() to the fallback. Otherwise, return message. Overridden in derived classes. 
  
ngettext(singular, plural, n)  
If a fallback has been set, forward ngettext() to the fallback. Otherwise, return singular if n is 1; return plural otherwise. Overridden in derived classes. 
  
pgettext(context, message)  
If a fallback has been set, forward pgettext() to the fallback. Otherwise, return the translated message. Overridden in derived classes.  New in version 3.8.  
  
npgettext(context, singular, plural, n)  
If a fallback has been set, forward npgettext() to the fallback. Otherwise, return the translated message. Overridden in derived classes.  New in version 3.8.  
  
lgettext(message) 
  
lngettext(singular, plural, n)  
Equivalent to gettext() and ngettext(), but the translation is returned as a byte string encoded in the preferred system encoding if no encoding was explicitly set with set_output_charset(). Overridden in derived classes.  Warning These methods should be avoided in Python 3. See the warning for the lgettext() function.   Deprecated since version 3.8, will be removed in version 3.10.  
  
info()  
Return the “protected” _info variable, a dictionary containing the metadata found in the message catalog file. 
  
charset()  
Return the encoding of the message catalog file. 
  
output_charset()  
Return the encoding used to return translated messages in lgettext() and lngettext().  Deprecated since version 3.8, will be removed in version 3.10.  
  
set_output_charset(charset)  
Change the encoding used to return translated messages.  Deprecated since version 3.8, will be removed in version 3.10.  
  
install(names=None)  
This method installs gettext() into the built-in namespace, binding it to _. If the names parameter is given, it must be a sequence containing the names of functions you want to install in the builtins namespace in addition to _(). Supported names are 'gettext', 'ngettext', 'pgettext', 'npgettext', 'lgettext', and 'lngettext'. Note that this is only one way, albeit the most convenient way, to make the _() function available to your application. Because it affects the entire application globally, and specifically the built-in namespace, localized modules should never install _(). Instead, they should use this code to make _() available to their module: import gettext
t = gettext.translation('mymodule', ...)
_ = t.gettext
 This puts _() only in the module’s global namespace and so only affects calls within this module.  Changed in version 3.8: Added 'pgettext' and 'npgettext'.
