# matplotlib._as_gen.matplotlib.axes.axes.annotate

matplotlib.axes.Axes.annotate   Axes.annotate(text, xy, *args, **kwargs)[source]
 
Annotate the point xy with text text. In the simplest form, the text is placed at xy. Optionally, the text can be displayed in another position xytext. An arrow pointing from the text to the annotated point xy can then be added by defining arrowprops.  Parameters 
 
textstr


The text of the annotation.  
xy(float, float)


The point (x, y) to annotate. The coordinate system is determined by xycoords.  
xytext(float, float), default: xy


The position (x, y) to place the text at. The coordinate system is determined by textcoords.  
xycoordsstr or Artist or Transform or callable or (float, float), default: 'data'


The coordinate system that xy is given in. The following types of values are supported:  
One of the following strings:   
Value Description   
'figure points' Points from the lower left of the figure  
'figure pixels' Pixels from the lower left of the figure  
'figure fraction' Fraction of figure from lower left  
'subfigure points' Points from the lower left of the subfigure  
'subfigure pixels' Pixels from the lower left of the subfigure  
'subfigure fraction' Fraction of subfigure from lower left  
'axes points' Points from lower left corner of axes  
'axes pixels' Pixels from lower left corner of axes  
'axes fraction' Fraction of axes from lower left  
'data' Use the coordinate system of the object being annotated (default)  
'polar' (theta, r) if not native 'data' coordinates   Note that 'subfigure pixels' and 'figure pixels' are the same for the parent figure, so users who want code that is usable in a subfigure can use 'subfigure pixels'.  An Artist: xy is interpreted as a fraction of the artist's Bbox. E.g. (0, 0) would be the lower left corner of the bounding box and (0.5, 1) would be the center top of the bounding box. A Transform to transform xy to screen coordinates. 
A function with one of the following signatures: def transform(renderer) -> Bbox
def transform(renderer) -> Transform
 where renderer is a RendererBase subclass. The result of the function is interpreted like the Artist and Transform cases above.  A tuple (xcoords, ycoords) specifying separate coordinate systems for x and y. xcoords and ycoords must each be of one of the above described types.  See Advanced Annotations for more details.  
textcoordsstr or Artist or Transform or callable or (float, float), default: value of xycoords


The coordinate system that xytext is given in. All xycoords values are valid as well as the following strings:   
Value Description   
'offset points' Offset (in points) from the xy value  
'offset pixels' Offset (in pixels) from the xy value    
arrowpropsdict, optional


The properties used to draw a FancyArrowPatch arrow between the positions xy and xytext. Defaults to None, i.e. no arrow is drawn. For historical reasons there are two different ways to specify arrows, "simple" and "fancy": Simple arrow: If arrowprops does not contain the key 'arrowstyle' the allowed keys are:   
Key Description   
width The width of the arrow in points  
headwidth The width of the base of the arrow head in points  
headlength The length of the arrow head in points  
shrink Fraction of total length to shrink from both ends  
? Any key to matplotlib.patches.FancyArrowPatch   The arrow is attached to the edge of the text box, the exact position (corners or centers) depending on where it's pointing to. Fancy arrow: This is used if 'arrowstyle' is provided in the arrowprops. Valid keys are the following FancyArrowPatch parameters:   
Key Description   
arrowstyle the arrow style  
connectionstyle the connection style  
relpos see below; default is (0.5, 0.5)  
patchA default is bounding box of the text  
patchB default is None  
shrinkA default is 2 points  
shrinkB default is 2 points  
mutation_scale default is text size (in points)  
mutation_aspect default is 1.  
? any key for matplotlib.patches.PathPatch   The exact starting point position of the arrow is defined by relpos. It's a tuple of relative coordinates of the text box, where (0, 0) is the lower left corner and (1, 1) is the upper right corner. Values <0 and >1 are supported and specify points outside the text box. By default (0.5, 0.5) the starting point is centered in the text box.  
annotation_clipbool or None, default: None


Whether to draw the annotation when the annotation point xy is outside the axes area.  If True, the annotation will only be drawn when xy is within the axes. If False, the annotation will always be drawn. If None, the annotation will only be drawn when xy is within the axes and xycoords is 'data'.   **kwargs

Additional kwargs are passed to Text.    Returns 
 Annotation
    See also  Advanced Annotations
  
  Examples using matplotlib.axes.Axes.annotate
 
   Broken Barh   

   Hat graph   

   Creating a timeline with lines, dates, and text   

   Combining two subplots using subplots and GridSpec   

   Labeling a pie and a donut   

   Scale invariant angle label   

   Annotating Plots   

   Annotation arrow style reference   

   Rendering math equations using TeX   

   Annotate Transform   

   Annotating a plot   

   Annotation Polar   

   Text Commands   

   Mmh Donuts!!!   

   axis_direction demo   

   Simple Axis Pad   

   XKCD   

   Patheffect Demo   

   Annotation with units   

   Annotate Explain   

   Annotate Simple01   

   Annotate Simple02   

   Annotate Simple03   

   Annotate Simple04   

   Annotate Simple Coord01   

   Annotate Simple Coord02   

   Annotate Simple Coord03   

   Connection styles for annotations   

   Simple Annotate01   

   Basic Usage   

   Faster rendering by using blitting   

   Transformations Tutorial   

   Text in Matplotlib Plots   

   Annotations
