# pygame.ref.surface#pygame.Surface.get_view

get_view() 
 return a buffer view of the Surface's pixels. get_view(<kind>='2') -> BufferProxy  Return an object which exports a surface's internal pixel buffer as a C level array struct, Python level array interface or a C level buffer interface. The pixel buffer is writeable. The new buffer protocol is supported for Python 2.6 and up in CPython. The old buffer protocol is also supported for Python 2.x. The old buffer data is in one segment for kind '0', multi-segment for other buffer view kinds. The kind argument is the length 1 string '0', '1', '2', '3', 'r', 'g', 'b', or 'a'. The letters are case insensitive; 'A' will work as well. The argument can be either a Unicode or byte (char) string. The default is '2'. '0' returns a contiguous unstructured bytes view. No surface shape information is given. A ValueError is raised if the surface's pixels are discontinuous. '1' returns a (surface-width * surface-height) array of continuous pixels. A ValueError is raised if the surface pixels are discontinuous. '2' returns a (surface-width, surface-height) array of raw pixels. The pixels are surface-bytesize-d unsigned integers. The pixel format is surface specific. The 3 byte unsigned integers of 24 bit surfaces are unlikely accepted by anything other than other pygame functions. '3' returns a (surface-width, surface-height, 3) array of RGB color components. Each of the red, green, and blue components are unsigned bytes. Only 24-bit and 32-bit surfaces are supported. The color components must be in either RGB or BGR order within the pixel. 'r' for red, 'g' for green, 'b' for blue, and 'a' for alpha return a (surface-width, surface-height) view of a single color component within a surface: a color plane. Color components are unsigned bytes. Both 24-bit and 32-bit surfaces support 'r', 'g', and 'b'. Only 32-bit surfaces with SRCALPHA support 'a'. The surface is locked only when an exposed interface is accessed. For new buffer interface accesses, the surface is unlocked once the last buffer view is released. For array interface and old buffer interface accesses, the surface remains locked until the BufferProxy object is released.  New in pygame 1.9.2.
